This project was created in response to the story of sisyphus who was punished to repeatedly roll a boulder to the top of a hill only to have it roll down again each time he reached the top. I wanted to imagine a hypothetical situation where sisyphus dies and wanted to create a heaven world and a hell world which creates a satirical play on sisyphus’ relationship to his boulder.

In the heaven world, Sisyphus is finally allowed to rest prompting a very simple game where the user plays god and bestows endless nights of sleep onto Sisyphus. The user can do this by pressing on a boulder and following a “nights slept” counter in the bottom right of the screen. This world focuses on the simplicity of the myth of sisyphus and proposes a repetitive task which opposes the heavy labour sisyphus faced in his lifetime.

In the hell world the user gets to play a game where Sisyphus is haunted by his boulder and repeatedly dies. The user begins playing as the boulder and forces Sisyphus to chase after it. Each time Sisyphus will die of exhaustion, which prompts a shift in the game where the user now plays Sisyphus who is being chased by the boulder. If the boulder and Sisyphus collide he dies and the game mode reverts back to the user playing the boulder. This was meant to be an extremely cruel representation of the life Sisyphus lived and to focus on the repetitive nature of dying in the cruelest most boring way possible for all eternity.

As for the composition, I created all the elements in photoshop then using css, javascript, and html, weaved them together into a nightmare world. I found that the hardest part of the process was making the elements look decent together. I had a lot of difficulty just arranging the elements so that they all worked in unison and appeared visually stimulating.


I wanted the world to appear very satirical. I did this by including boulder related motifs throughout the project, such as a boulder painting above his bed in the heaven world and having the buttons be boulders. I also wanted the style to feel very saturated, colorful and oppositional to that of greek mythology while still featuring motifs found in the story of Sisyphus. I did this through the music, by including extreme guitar in the hell world and the contrasting birds chirping in the heaven world. I wanted the user to feel very jarred by the imagery because the function of the two worlds is very simple and I wanted the user to stay engaged.
