My project explores the phenomena of the behaviour of humans when observing tragedies outside of their personal sphere of interaction. Significantly prompted by social media, we now live in a society where all one needs to feel as if they are supporting an issue is posting about it online. We are surrounded by countless screen shots of news stories and posts on facebook promoting a certain cause but are lacking in actual change in these issues they support. Often times, mass social media populations will jump from relevant issue to relevant issue depending on what is the most popular at the time and will not stop to invest or actually engage in what is going on. Similar to flies, humans will just swarm whatever is relevant, suck whatever they need out of it then buzz to the next issue. My project explores this metaphor by creating 4 different interactive worlds exploring this behaviour.

The first world establishes the metaphor by having the user fill the image of a fly with tiny buzzing humans. The video underneath is a news clip from a recent news story from puerto rico. I created the effect of filling a fly image by having hundreds of fly humans spawn and move around a rectangle which lies underneath a transparent image of a fly. The effect of having the newsclip underneath an image of a buzzing fly around the cursor was done in css using a css mask and js to apply the mask to the mouse position. This was based off of a project I completed last term. The second world also features a news clip which has been mirrored to replicate a flies vision in a kaleidoscopic effect. At the centre of the screen being surrounded by buzzing flies is a video of yourself, further pushing the metaphor. I used a piece of code found online which allowed me to create a webcam video and applied it to the same css mask effect as the first world. The humans spawning outside of the circle was done in jquery using a function which randomly generates a position for the human flies to spawn at a random angle in a circle around the webcam image. This was extremely difficult as I had not executed that type of math in a long time. The third world takes a closer look into the metaphor by providing a variation of vantage points to observe a swarm of fly humans. This was created in p5 based on a piece of code found online which I was looking at when I first wanted to figure out how I wanted the flies to move. It shuffles through variations of size and movement using p5 functions. The final world also looks at a swarm of flies but incorporates a kaleidoscopic news clip. I wrote the code for this world from scratch using p5 and the same css mask effect as World 1.

After viewing the project, the viewer is meant to take a look at the world and perhaps reconsider all the news they see on social media. It will hopefully prompt some sort of reflection within the viewer and perhaps change the way they observe the world.
